---
layout: post
title: Mad Men
date: 2007-07-23
excerpt: I’m no good.
---

I just checked out the first episode of AMC's "Mad Men":http://media.amctv.com/originals/madmen/. I was reeled in by the ad with the "great soundtrack":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/You_Know_I'm_No_Good. I'm not sure if it will become a regular for me, but I'll stick around for a few episodes to see where it goes. I did really like the portrayal of creative paralysis. The protagonist, "Draper":http://media.amctv.com/originals/madmen/cast/cast_bio_hamm.html, is sitting in a meeting still not knowing what he's going to say when the boss segues to him. Gut wrenching.

The show opens with a title-card explaining that "Mad Men" is a term coined by Madison Avenue ad men, to describe themselves. It stuck out to me as a bit odd at first, but it turns out to presage the interesting thing they've done with the ad breaks for the show. Each spot is preceded by a title-screen in the Mad Men visual style. So as you are fast-forwarding though the break you see little blips of "real" content. In this case they are  about the company featured in the campaign you are about to see a part of. Clever. I almost stopped to watch them.

I've been wondering when and how advertising would really start to deal with the presence of "DVR":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_video_recorders rather than just pretend they don't exist or try to break them. It seems like we're headed back towards product placement a la "boy this Ovaltine™ sure is good!" Tailoring branded intros for the ads is an interesting take on it that seems appropriate for a show about the people who make them.
