---
layout: post
title: Ride More
published: false
categories: bikes
excerpt:
---

Cycle culture is wide and deep. The words "ride more" take on different meanings depending on where you are in the grid.

1. Elite Racer
2. Courier
3. Transportation Cyclist
4. Recreational Rider

For Pros or wannabes ride more usually means put in more miles (more hours) to the exclusion of more of the rest of life. But it might also mean to do something different, get a roadie out on the trails, a casual mountain biker might try out trials riding. For a recreational rider, it might mean trying that commute by bike instead of car.

I used to ride everywhere. Then I rode less. Now I'm trying to ride more. Part of this has been just a mental shift, I resolved that if I think about doing a trip by bike, I do it. I have very rarely regretted it. I'm sure that the day will come, but I hope that all the joy of rides almost not taken will cushion the impact. But there are some other things I've done to make this more likely to happen. The single greatest real obstacle to a ride is "that sounds hard". Weather, cargo, passengers, all these can be dealt with but how prepared you are has a huge impact on how hard it seems.

## Embrace fenders
Weather is an issue for cyclists, especially in the Northeast. We have a real winter here (substitute Summer in the deep south) and you have to dress for it.  I resisted them for many many years because they would make my bike look dumb. Fenders are awesome. It turns out that except in a real downpour most of the wet you get riding in or after the rain is from road water.

## Ride the right bike
It might not be that sexy racing bike you've been eying.

