---
title: I like iOS 7
published: false
---

# I like iOS 7

At least I think I do! I haven’t run it on a device yet, so all I'm working from is the promotional materials released by Apple. But (I think) most of the folks I've seen loudly denouncing it are in the same boat. I've been thinking about writing this since I was surprised by the first “This Sucks!” post by someone I respect. I the interim several people have written some thoughtful responses. You should probably just read theirs instead. But here’s why I am excited about iOS 7.

## Simulated wood grain

When I was a lad in design school one of my professors really hammered us on being true to nature. The simulated wood-grain on an electronic alarm clock is a desperate move to try to cloak the device in some respectability. It’s a weak reference to mechanical clocks of brass in hard-wood cabinets. But it’s not fooling anyone, it just looks cheap. The message was to embrace the qualities of the medium and design around the purpose of the object.

Computer interfaces represent an interesting problem in this regard. There is the command line:

          Me:  Do something
    Computer:  Say please.
          Me:  !! please

This was pretty great for the people who developed the system, but is pretty intimidating to everyone else. In an effort to make computer interfaces more usable to a broader audience, the GUI was born. In an effort make people comfortable with the new systems designers enlisted familiar objects. The Desktop, the Trash Can, Folders... You get it. You’ve been soaking in this stuff for years. Well, as devices have become more capable there has been a tendency to up the fidelity on all these affordances. And so we have had Rich Corinthian Leather, linen backgrounds, and on-off switches that look like physical switches.

## No more training wheels

An important task in interface design is making it clear what is a button and what is just presentation of information.
The first approach was to make it look as much like a button as the display can handle. This works pretty well in a simple call-and-response scenario like a shopping site. Look at the picture, read the description, click the buy button. Done? Ok, click checkout. These are relatively simple linear interactions. As the number of possible interactions multiply

Modern smartphone apps are doing a lot more and starting to lean more heavily on gestures. We are collectively building a shared library of interaction idioms. Swipe to the left to reveal a delete option.
